Saying goodbye to WordPress

I am really surprised I'd start this "Tech Blog" series. I have been trying not to appear geeky all this time, 
but I think I am one. Thankfully, majority of the society today think that geeks and nerds are now the 
"new cool", so I think I'm in the right track here.

I've been blogging for the past 10++ years. I've been hooked to Blogging NOT because 
I want to pour myself out to the world and beg for attention... Okey but wait, that might be partially true 5 years ago...
and that was over now thank God! 

The truth is, I was hooked because I was very interested on the Technology around the blogging world - how it all works, from the 
frontend up to the backend. And I experimented it all - Blogger, Multiply, LiveJournal, Tabulas, i.ph, iWeb, and finally Wordpress. 
I remember getting frustrated on why my iWeb pages are loading slowly on Windows devices, and searching voraciously on the net 
how to optimize an Apple-ran blogging platform, but to no extent. Up to the point of just throwing it all and migrating (or
manually transferring posts and media) to WordPress. Wordpress and I were happy together for around 10 years.

How it all began

WordPress is very powerful, and it sure gets the job done. The themes are just wonderful! Customization is a breeze.
There are times though when I want to publish my "own look and feel", and editing a few PHP lines is never enough. 
I really don't want to focus on just the content. 
I want to do more. I want to have full-control of how my whole application works. 

And I thought that grabbing a PHP book and studying WordPress and templating was so easy. 
For almost 10 years, I had that desire. I studied child-templates and even got into using Genesis, a WordPress 
"Framework" which makes it easier to customize even more. The double-quotes - because, 
I thought at first that Genesis is some kind of "Spring" in the PHP world, but it's really just a 
another WordPress theme that you can, in Java lingo, <i>extend</i> on. 
I know to some it's easy to study the Genesis framework but I thought it was never enough and I need to know more.
I just never found the dedication.  

Until one night in our favorite Chinese Restaurant in San Antonio, my fortune cookie gave me this advice: "Do not 
let what you cannot do interfere with what you CAN do." I know it's just a stupid fortune cookie but it did 
gave me an epiphany that night. Why do I have to stick with something I don't know and not very familiar of when 
I can do it in the way that I know. Why learn PHP when I know Java!

Considerations

I've been in the Software Development world ever since, I know how to make a web application. I even know how to make a powerful one.
Right now I don't know if I really need that "power", but the point is... I know how to make a simple website that I 
can have full control of! Some of the considerations I was talking to in my mind:

Q: What about the simplicity of a one-click-Wordpress-installation in all the webhosts available? 
A: I say - Get a Linux VM, Install Tomcat, Deploy the Web Application. Easy peasy. 
I've supported Application Servers before, I know how they work.

Q: What about the Responsive Themes that Wordpress can offer?
A: Uhm, bootstrap! I'm sure there are more. And whenever I'm in dire need of a solution, 
send the question to the internet and it will give me my answer. It's very easy to code these times. It's all provided for you,
you just need to know where to put your code.

Q: What about SEO?
A: I am really not focused right now for promoting my content. I'm just one happy developer of my own application.

Q: What about security?
A: I'm very confident that my chosen hosting service have that covered already. Most of my non-functional requirements 
are being taken care of. 

Next Steps

So this site is so simple right now. Just bare-bones Dynamic Web Application with multiple imported bootstrap content.
I'm guessing that this "Tech Blog" of mine will just hold my improvements as I go to this wonderful world of
development.